.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

Applications
============

VIFF has been used for several small and some larger applications. The
largest applications are listed below. Please see the ``apps/``
directory in VIFF for more examples of small programs using VIFF.


Nordic Sugar
------------

(TODO)


Distributed RSA
---------------

Atle Mauland from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology
(NTNU) used VIFF for his Master's Thesis titled "`Realizing Distributed
RSA using Secure Multiparty Computations`__".

.. __: http://daim.idi.ntnu.no/masteroppgave?id=4699

The private key from a RSA key pair must be kept in a highly secure
location (to prevent unauthorized persons from stealing it) but
because we want to use the key, we cannot just write it on a piece of
paper and store that in a safe.

This tension between high availability and high security makes a
distributed solution attractive. Atle Mauland implemented a protocol
by Boneh and Franklin for generating RSA keys in a distributed
fashion. The protocol ensures that the private key is never available
in the clear to any given party and an attacker must break into all
machines to learn the private key. Meanwhile, the parties can use
their shares of the private key to securely decrypt messages encrypted
under the public key.

Generating a 1024-bit RSA key using VIFF took about 30 minutes on
average (the time varied between 7 seconds and 2.5 hours). These
results can likely be improved by using the GMPY library more
aggressively.


Distributed AES
---------------

The Advanced Encryption Standard (Rijndael) block cipher turns out to
have nice arithmetic properties which makes its computation by
arithmetic circuits relatively fast. Marcel Keller from the University
of Aarhus has implemented a multiparty version of AES for VIFF.

Using the :mod:`viff.aes` module, it is possible to securely
compute a secret shared AES encrypted ciphertext of a (possibly)
secret shared plaintext with a (possibly) secret shared key. The
inputs have to be given either as a list of shares over
:class:`~viff.field.GF256` (byte-wise) or as a string. The runtime has
to be able to handle shares over GF256.

Encrypting a 128-bit block using a 128-bit secret shared AES key takes
about 2 seconds using three machines. Decryption is not implemented
yet.


Secure Voting
-------------

Typical Internet voting systems store all votes in a single location.
HÃ¥vard Vegge  from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology
(NTNU) used VIFF for his Master's Thesis titled "`Realizing Secure
Multiparty Computations`__" to implement a distributed voting system.

.. __: http://daim.idi.ntnu.no/masteroppgave?id=4559

The system removes the single point of failure by storing the votes in
secret shared form between three servers. The voters will do the
secret sharing on their own machine, encrypt the shares, and send the
encrypted shares to a database. Each share is encrypted under the
public key belonging to the computation server that will do the actual
multiparty computation.

This project shows how VIFF can be integrated with many other
technologies. The user creates a vote on a website programmed in PHP
and the voting is cast using a Java applet. The applet has the
responsibility of encrypting the votes for the computation servers.
When all voters have cast their vote, a XML-RPC message is sent to the
Python program running on the servers. That program decrypts the
shares and uses VIFF to compute the result.
